=== SYSTEM ===
You extract a structured profile of a nonprofit organisation from pages crawled from its website. The output feeds a sales and research database, so accuracy matters more than completeness.

Rules:
- Use only facts stated in the documents. No outside knowledge, no guessing. If the documents don't support a field, return null (or an empty list).
- source_url: copy the url attribute of the <document> the fact came from.
- confidence: high = stated explicitly; medium = stated but ambiguous, partial or possibly outdated; low = inferred from indirect wording.
- evidence: copy a short verbatim snippet (max 30 words) from that document. Never paraphrase it.
- Dates in ISO 8601 (YYYY-MM-DD; YYYY-MM or YYYY if that is all the page gives). Money as a plain number plus ISO 4217 currency code ("$12.5 million" -> 12500000, USD).
- annual_revenue: total revenue or income for one fiscal year. Not a single gift, campaign goal, program budget or cumulative total.
- registration_id: the number only, as printed (e.g. "12-3456789" or "207076"). If several are shown, the main one (US EIN, or the first charity number).
- leadership: up to 8 named leaders, most senior first: the chief executive, then heads of fundraising/development, finance and operations/IT, then at most 2 board officers (e.g. chair, treasurer). When a person is listed under a board or trustees heading, their title must say so (e.g. "Board Chair", "Trustee"). Add email or LinkedIn only if shown next to that person.
- general_contact: the organisation's general email, phone and contact page.
- buyer_signals: up to 8 recent or planned events that suggest the organisation will spend on new tools, systems or services. Look hardest in annual reports, strategic plans, news and CEO/board letters. Types: technology_investment (the organisation is adopting, replacing or building its own CRM, database, website, digital or data systems); capital_campaign (a named campaign to raise capital or endowment for the organisation); strategic_plan (the organisation has adopted or is developing its own new multi-year strategic plan; an annual report, policy, code of practice, programme or event is not a strategic plan); leadership_change (a new chief executive, or a new head of development/fundraising, finance, operations or IT; board appointments do not count); merger (merger, acquisition or affiliation); expansion (new sites, regions or services of its own, or significant staff growth); major_grant (a large grant or gift to the organisation, e.g. $1M+ or a large share of its budget, especially for capacity building); funding_growth (stated growth in the organisation's own revenue, donors or budget); other. Only events the documents state, each with evidence. A signal must be about the organisation itself: its own systems, leadership, strategy, structure or funding. Not programmes, events, products or services it delivers to others (e.g. a workshop it hosts for other nonprofits, a directory or app it launches for the public, a product release), and not fundraising events or donation appeals. date: when it was announced or starts.
- open_roles: current paid job openings only (no volunteer roles). open_rfps: current requests for proposals, tenders or procurement notices only.
- recent_news: up to 8 of the newest dated news, press or blog items with their dates. Do not filter by age.
- funders_and_partners: organisations named as funders, sponsors or partners (max 15).
- impact_metrics: up to 5 short quantified claims about the organisation's own work, e.g. "Served 12,000 meals in 2024". Not outcomes of its grantees or partners.
- cause_area: the single best fit from the allowed list. geography_served.scope: local (one city or county), regional (state, province or multi-county area), national or international.
- looks_like_nonprofit: false if the site is clearly a business, government body or personal site; say why in not_nonprofit_reason.

=== USER ===
<documents>
<document url="https://www.rspb.org.uk/about-us/who-we-are" type="html" page="about">
We’re the RSPB
The RSPB is a charity for the conservation of birds and nature. We bring people together who love birds and other wildlife, and who want to take action to restore the health and diversity of the natural world.
On this page
We carry out conservation on a large scale, protect and restore habitats, and save species from extinction. We’re living in a nature and climate emergency, and we won’t stop whilst the threats persist.
Our work is driven by science and evidence. It’s rooted in five areas: species, science, place, policy and people.
Species
The survival of wildlife species is the best sign of whether conservation is working. That’s why we work to protect them from a huge variety of threats, like habitat loss, decline of food sources and threats from introduced species.
We take action to save species on the verge of global extinction and reduce the declines of many more. We’re proud play a part in helping species as diverse as the Bittern, Crane, Gannet, vultures and Saiga Antelope.
Science
Our world-leading research allows us to take a ‘bird’s eye view’ of the overarching problems facing nature and the planet, and then identify the solutions that make a real difference.
We establish the conservation interventions that will have the most impact, and then we monitor and test these actions to measure success.
The State of Nature report, a partnership report led by RSPB scientists, is the definitive stock-take on how nature is doing in the UK, what’s causing species to decline, and what’s needed to turn things around.
Place
Nature needs other nature to survive. That’s why we work to create more, bigger, better and well-connected protected areas for nature on land and at sea. We manage more than 200 nature reserves in the UK from the Shetlands to the Suffolk coast.
Our work with partners stretches around the world: from establishing marine protected areas three times the size of the UK in the South Atlantic, to recovering an area of steppe grassland in Kazakhstan larger than Denmark.
Policy
To save nature, we must tackle the drivers of its decline, and put laws, policies and funding in place to help save it. All too often, political decisions don’t consider nature. That’s why we’ve been advocating, campaigning, influencing and successfully securing laws to protect nature for 135 years.
From securing a ban on industrial sandeel fishing which protects food sources for Puffins and other seabirds, to helping to secure legally-binding targets for nature’s restoration within the UK Government’s Environment Act; taking action will always be at the heart of what we do at the RSPB.
People
We’re all connected by the wonder of nature. The health of the natural world is fundamental to the survival of all species – including us. Together with our incredible 1.2 million members, our supporters, volunteers, communities, farmers, campaigners, landowners, business leaders, partners and many more, we all work to save nature.
From inspiring hundreds of thousands of people to connect with nature as part of Big Garden Birdwatch; to working as a hands-on conservation volunteer, we want to enthuse everyone and ensure the broadest possible support for our cause. Nature is in crisis. By working together, we can save it.
Our impact
We have the capacity and expertise to make a difference on a global scale. Our work provides clear proof that – with the right help – nature, birds and other wildlife can bounce back.

[Contact links in page HTML]
email: 
email: membership@rspb.org.uk
</document>
<document url="https://www.rspb.org.uk/about-us/annual-report/annual-report-archive" type="html" page="financials">
Annual Report Archive

 Feature

Annual Report Archive
Find our archive of the RSPB's annual reports 2001-2026.
Read the full 2025-2026 report
5 min read
On this page
Our annual reports
Annual Report 2025-2026
Our annual reports
As well as providing an overview of key RSPB activities in the UK, the annual reports offer a wide-ranging snapshot of what we achieved in a particular year and report on our progress overseas.

You'll also find a financial summary, approved by the RSPB's auditors.

Annual Report 2025-2026

Read the full report

Download the 2025-2026 grants list

Downloads
2024-2025

RSPB Annual Report

RSPB Grants List

2023-2024

RSPB Annual Report

RSPB Grants List

 2022-2023

RSPB Annual Report

RSPB Grants List

2021-2022

RSPB Annual Report

RSPB Grants List

2020-2021

RSPB Annual Report

RSPB Grants List

2019-2020

RSPB Annual Report

RSPB Grants List

2001-2019

2018-2019 Annual Review

2017-2018 Annual Review

2016-2017 Annual Review

2015-2016 Annual Review

2014-2015 Annual Review

2013-2014 Annual Review

2012-2013 Annual Review

2011-2012 Annual Review

2010-2011 Annual Review 

2009-2010 Annual Review

2008-2009 Annual Review

2007-2008 Annual Review

2006-2007 Annual Review

2005-2006 Annual Review

2004-2005 Annual Review

2003-2004 Annual Review

2002-2003 Annual Review

2001-2002 Annual Review

Share this article
Facebook
Bluesky
Send via Email
Copy Link
Partnering with
 The RSPB is a member of BirdLife International.
More

[Contact links in page HTML]
email: 
email: membership@rspb.org.uk
</document>
<document url="https://www.rspb.org.uk/about-us/annual-report/rspb-annual-report-top-ten" type="html" page="financials">
News
Celebrating 20 years of restoring chalk wildlife in Wiltshire
The reserve was purchased in 2006 to safeguard the local Stone-curlew population, and to protect an important landscape ...
25th Sep 2026
Read on for 10 stand-out achievements from the RSPB Annual Report 2023-24. Find out how, together with more than one million RSPB members, volunteers and supporters, we’re working to tackle the nature and climate crisis.
5 min read
Here at the RSPB, we’re determined to realise our vision of a shared world where wildlife, wild spaces and all people thrive. To do this we need to take action for nature with a bird’s eye view. This means we look at how we can have the biggest impact possible, while also having a detailed understanding of how to tackle the threats affecting our birds and other wildlife. The Annual Report details the many ways in which we are working, from saving species on nature reserves to carrying out conservation that is visible from space! Read on for a snapshot of what’s been achieved.
It’s thanks to our million plus members, and many volunteers, funders, partners and supporters that we can do what we do. Thank you! We hope you feel inspired and proud as you read through our Annual Report top 10.
In spring 2023, more than 10 million viewers tuned into Wild Isles, the stunning BBC series we co-produced with Silverback Films, WWF-UK and the Open University, and narrated by Sir David Attenborough. One of the many legacies of this epic series is the Save Our Wild Isles Community Fund. This award-winning fund has resulted in £2.5 million being awarded to 250 community projects across the UK. These range from community gardens and planting trees to saving marine wildlife by collecting discarded fishing nets.
We’ve also seen people come together in direct response to environmental disasters, such as in Scotland when supporters rallied to restore our Corrimony nature reserve after wildfires in May 2023. Following an appeal for help, RSPB members, supporters and philanthropists sprang into action and thanks to their generous gifts of over £200,000, as well as support from Barratt Homes and Trees for Life, we have been able to set about restoring the habitat. While there remains a lot to do, the return of birds to breed there in spring 2024, heralded a remarkable recovery.
In January 2024, Puffins, Kittiwakes, Razorbills and other threatened seabirds were thrown a lifeline, after decades of campaigning finally saw the UK and Scottish Governments close sandeel fisheries in the English waters of the North Sea and all Scottish waters. This marks the single greatest act that will help save our seabirds. Many, including Puffins, rely on sandeels to feed their chicks. But climate change and overfishing have vastly depleted sandeel populations, having a devastating knock-on effect on seabirds. Although the European Union is now challenging this curb on sandeel fishing, we are continuing to support the ban.
In March, the Scottish Parliament passed a raft of measures set to herald the end of persecution of birds of prey in the country and improve the condition of upland habitats. The Wildlife Management and Muirburn Act aims to put a stop to the illegal persecution of birds of prey, such as Golden Eagles and Hen Harriers, through the stronger regulation of grouse shooting. This new legislation follows decades of campaigning, with the RSPB at the forefront of those calling for urgent change, and it is hoped that the new laws could herald the end of the persecution of birds of prey in Scotland, as well as improve the conditions of upland habitats.
Stretching from the Arctic to southern Africa, the African-Eurasian Flyway is one of four great global pathways used by hundreds of billions of migratory birds every year, many of which stop off in the UK, such as Barnacle Geese, Dunlins and Wigeons. Thanks to a £3 million partnership with the Ecological Restoration Fund and Birdlife International, we have begun work to protect landscapes and billions of birds along the flyway. This will enable us to tackle threats such as habitat destruction and degradation, illegal hunting and climate change.
December 2023 saw the highest ever number of waterbirds at RSPB Wallasea Island in Essex, with 38,000 birds, including Teals, Shovelers and Wigeons, recorded. The habitats here were created through the Wallasea Island Wild Coast Project. This landmark conservation and engineering project remains one of the largest of its type in Europe and there are now over 650 hectares of lagoons, mudflats, saltmarsh and coastal grassland providing much needed food and shelter for wildlife.
Seabirds on Northern Ireland’s Rathlin Island, including Puffins, Guillemots and Razorbills, are one step closer to a more secure future thanks to LIFE Raft. Non-native invasive Ferrets and Brown Rats are driving declines in many seabirds, as well as in other small mammals, invertebrates and plants. The multi-partner LIFE Raft project aims to eradicate Ferrets and Rats from the island and decrease the likelihood of their return. Since October 2023 over 600 Ferret traps have been activated and it is estimated that only a few Ferrets remain. The project is set to run until 2026, by which time it is hoped that all Ferrets and Rats will have been removed.
Choughs, Curlews, Water Voles and many more species are set to benefit from Natur am Byth, a flagship Green Recovery project for Wales. RSPB Cymru are leading on the Pen Llŷn ac Ynys Môn project within the wider Natur am Byth programme. Both the Llŷn Peninsula and Anglesey (Ynys Môn) have an impressive suite of habitats and wildlife. RSPB South Stack on Ynys Môn, for example, supports rare Choughs, Adders and Spatulate Fleawort, a plant found nowhere else. Over the next four years, the project aims to halt the extinction of 42 species in Wales
Since 2020 we’ve been working to prevent the first global bird extinction on British soil for over 60 years. Wilkins’ Buntings are a critically endangered bird only found on Nightingale Island, part of Tristan da Cunha, a remote group of islands in the South Atlantic Ocean and a UK Overseas Territory. Wilkins’ Buntings rely on the island’s native tree, Phylica arborea, for food. But the accidental introduction of an invasive insect has devastated these trees. The insects infest the trees and by secreting honeydew, they encourage the growth of a sooty mould which can completely smother and kill the trees. In 2019 storms hit, destroying the already weakened trees and causing an estimated loss of 80% of the island’s forest.
We’ve been working to develop a suitable biocontrol agent and thanks to the introduction of this tiny wasp species, the trees are beginning to recover. Although the birds remain at risk, their future is looking brighter. A survey in February 2024 estimated there to be up to 90 pairs of breeding Wilkins’ Buntings.
Hundreds of UK farmers, landowners and volunteers are working with Operation Turtle Dove to provide better nesting and feeding habitat for these migratory birds across southern and eastern England. 2023 proved a record year with over 260 farm holdings – covering over 68,500 hectares – a further 107 land managers and an army of dedicated volunteers helping to create the perfect conditions for Turtle Doves. Meanwhile, Turtle Dove hunting in France, Spain and Portugal was banned in 2023, following on from bans in 2021 and 2022. Each year of the ban is estimated to have saved the lives of one million birds. By understanding what’s driving the declines in Turtle Doves, we’ve been able to help them both on their breeding grounds in the UK and along their migratory routes.

[Contact links in page HTML]
email: 
email: membership@rspb.org.uk
</document>
</documents>

Extract ONLY these fields: leadership, annual_revenue. Leave the other fields null or empty.