=== SYSTEM ===
You extract a structured profile of a nonprofit organisation from pages crawled from its website. The output feeds a sales and research database, so accuracy matters more than completeness.

Rules:
- Use only facts stated in the documents. No outside knowledge, no guessing. If the documents don't support a field, return null (or an empty list).
- source_url: copy the url attribute of the <document> the fact came from.
- confidence: high = stated explicitly; medium = stated but ambiguous, partial or possibly outdated; low = inferred from indirect wording.
- evidence: copy a short verbatim snippet (max 30 words) from that document. Never paraphrase it.
- Dates in ISO 8601 (YYYY-MM-DD; YYYY-MM or YYYY if that is all the page gives). Money as a plain number plus ISO 4217 currency code ("$12.5 million" -> 12500000, USD).
- annual_revenue: total revenue or income for one fiscal year. Not a single gift, campaign goal, program budget or cumulative total.
- registration_id: the number only, as printed (e.g. "12-3456789" or "207076"). If several are shown, the main one (US EIN, or the first charity number).
- leadership: up to 8 named leaders, most senior first: the chief executive, then heads of fundraising/development, finance and operations/IT, then at most 2 board officers (e.g. chair, treasurer). When a person is listed under a board or trustees heading, their title must say so (e.g. "Board Chair", "Trustee"). Add email or LinkedIn only if shown next to that person.
- general_contact: the organisation's general email, phone and contact page.
- buyer_signals: up to 8 recent or planned events that suggest the organisation will spend on new tools, systems or services. Look hardest in annual reports, strategic plans, news and CEO/board letters. Types: technology_investment (the organisation is adopting, replacing or building its own CRM, database, website, digital or data systems); capital_campaign (a named campaign to raise capital or endowment for the organisation); strategic_plan (the organisation has adopted or is developing its own new multi-year strategic plan; an annual report, policy, code of practice, programme or event is not a strategic plan); leadership_change (a new chief executive, or a new head of development/fundraising, finance, operations or IT; board appointments do not count); merger (merger, acquisition or affiliation); expansion (new sites, regions or services of its own, or significant staff growth); major_grant (a large grant or gift to the organisation, e.g. $1M+ or a large share of its budget, especially for capacity building); funding_growth (stated growth in the organisation's own revenue, donors or budget); other. Only events the documents state, each with evidence. A signal must be about the organisation itself: its own systems, leadership, strategy, structure or funding. Not programmes, events, products or services it delivers to others (e.g. a workshop it hosts for other nonprofits, a directory or app it launches for the public, a product release), and not fundraising events or donation appeals. date: when it was announced or starts.
- open_roles: current paid job openings only (no volunteer roles). open_rfps: current requests for proposals, tenders or procurement notices only.
- recent_news: up to 8 of the newest dated news, press or blog items with their dates. Do not filter by age.
- funders_and_partners: organisations named as funders, sponsors or partners (max 15).
- impact_metrics: up to 5 short quantified claims about the organisation's own work, e.g. "Served 12,000 meals in 2024". Not outcomes of its grantees or partners.
- cause_area: the single best fit from the allowed list. geography_served.scope: local (one city or county), regional (state, province or multi-county area), national or international.
- looks_like_nonprofit: false if the site is clearly a business, government body or personal site; say why in not_nonprofit_reason.

=== USER ===
<documents>
<document url="https://www.cfwesternva.org/" type="html" page="homepage">
We could list a dazzling array of facts and figures here about our strong and continued asset growth and our many years of life-changing grant making, but those can be found elsewhere on this site. In this space, our purpose is to simply say we enable generous people like you to easily give back to the community you love. Whether that community is the Roanoke Valley, the Martinsville-Henry County area, the Alleghany Highlands or other parts of Western Virginia, we stand ready to serve you. You will discover that incorporating the community foundation option into your lifetime charitable giving and your estate plans will prove rewarding while being flexible and effective in its execution, tax-wise in its benefits, and permanent in carrying on your philanthropic legacy.
Nonprofits are essential to the vitality of our community – the place we all call home. Each organization provides important and very challenging work daily…
Learn More
As the Community Foundation has grown over the years, we have increasingly expanded our services to different components of the philanthropic landscape…
Learn More
LEAVE A LEGACY
Many individuals choose to create a charitable legacy through a planned or estate gift. When you make a commitment to strengthen your community, today or in the future…
LEARN MORE
Social Feed
 Please join us in welcoming Talfourd H. Kemper Jr. to the Community Foundation’s Board of Governors!
Talfourd is a Partner at Woods Rogers and Chair of the firm’s Emerging Growth & Venture Capital practice group. Throughout his distinguished career, he has represented both growing technology companies and investors, including serving for six years as general counsel of a NASDAQ-listed technology company. In addition to his professional accomplishments, Talfourd, a Roanoke native, has served in leadership roles with a number of local organizations and initiatives.
We are pleased to welcome Talfourd to our Board of Governors and look forward to the experience, insight, and leadership he will bring to our mission. 
 ... 
 Please help us welcome Jane Judah to the Community Foundation’s Board of Governors!
Jane is the owner of Virginia Estate Administration, LLC, a Roanoke-based firm dedicated to helping executors, administrators, trustees, and other fiduciaries navigate the often-complex estate settlement process. Through her work, she has earned a reputation for providing knowledgeable, compassionate guidance and helping clients ensure estates and trusts are administered efficiently, accurately, and in accordance with Virginia law.
We look forward to the insight and expertise Jane will contribute as a member of our Board of Governors. 
 ... 
 Please join us in welcoming Sherry Frantz to the Community Foundation’s Board of Governors!
Sherry is President of Frantz Diamonds, a family-owned business known throughout the Roanoke Valley for its exceptional craftsmanship, personalized service, and commitment to the community. She has successfully grown the business by combining her engineering background with a lifelong passion for jewelry. Beyond her professional achievements, Sherry is deeply committed to philanthropy and community service, including her involvement with the Roanoke Women’s Foundation and support of numerous charitable organizations.
We are excited to have Sherry join our Board of Governors and look forward to the valuable insight and dedication she will bring to our mission. 
 ... 
 Please join us in welcoming Chris Desimone to the Community Foundation’s Board of Governors!
Chris serves as President of Anderson, Desimone, Green & Owens, P.C. and is a nationally recognized estate planning attorney. He is known for his commitment to serving individuals and families of all financial backgrounds and has been a strong advocate for protecting older adults from financial exploitation. A former commissioned officer in the U.S. Army JAG Corps, Chris earned multiple commendations, including two Meritorious Service Medals. Throughout his career, he has also been an educator, author, speaker, and advocate, presenting hundreds of seminars and educational programs on estate planning, elder law, and financial protection throughout Virginia and beyond.
We are excited to have Chris join our Board of Governors and look forward to the leadership, expertise, and perspective he will bring to our organization. 
 ... 
 Please join us in welcoming Lindsay Collins to the Community Foundation’s Board of Governors!
Lindsay currently serves as Vice President of Medicine and Acute Care Services for Carilion Clinic. An accomplished healthcare executive and nursing leader, she brings extensive expertise in hospital operations, nursing leadership, and patient care services. Her commitment to advancing patient care and supporting nursing excellence, combined with her depth of experience, has made her a respected leader within the healthcare community and throughout the region.
We are excited to have Lindsay join our Board of Governors and look forward to the impact her leadership and expertise will bring. 
 ... 
 🎉 We're excited to announce that the Community Foundation Serving Western Virginia's Nonprofit Directory is now live!
This new resource makes it easier than ever to discover and connect with the nonprofit organizations serving our region. Whether you're looking for volunteer opportunities, community resources, or ways to support causes you care about, the Directory can help you find organizations by name or service category.
Serving Botetourt, Craig, Franklin, Henry, Patrick, and Roanoke counties, as well as the cities of Martinsville, Roanoke, and Salem, the Directory highlights the incredible work nonprofits are doing every day to strengthen our communities.
Explore the Directory today and discover ways to get involved, give back, and support local impact!
Visit the Nonprofit Directory here: cfswv.fcsuite.com/erp/donate/list/directory 
 ... 
 NPO Connect: Fall Half Day of Learning
Join us on Thursday, October 8 from 9:00 AM – 12:45 PM
Where: Roanoke Higher Education Center
Registration Fee: $20.00
Space is limited so register today!
Event Details:
-Registration required and is limited to two participants per organization.
-Light breakfast, snacks, and beverages will be provided for attendees.
-Participants are responsible for arranging and paying for their own parking.
-Registration fees are non-refundable. Refunds will not be issued if a participant cancels registration or is unable to attend.
Program Overview
Session 1: Donor Retention 
Retaining donors is one of the most cost-effective strategies for sustainable fundraising. This session will provide nonprofit development professionals with practical tools and strategies to deepen donor relationships, improve retention rates, and build a loyal base of supporters committed to the organization's mission.
Session 2: Grant Writing Essentials
This session provides nonprofit professionals with foundational grant writing knowledge and practical strategies to develop compelling proposals that secure funding for programs and services. Participants will learn the grant writing process from start to finish, from identifying potential funders to submitting strong proposals, and gain practical tools they can apply immediately to their organization's grant efforts.
To learn more visit: lp.constantcontactpages.com/ev/reg/zwwmfeb 
 ... 
 Hosted by The Community Foundation Serving Western Virginia in partnership with Kobia Consulting
January–March 2027
This three-month, application-based program includes:
-Two virtual sessions per month
-One in-person session per month
💲 Participant Fee: Accepted applicants will be fully funded by the Foundation.
As part of our commitment to strengthen local nonprofit organizations, the Foundation is inviting a small group of nonprofit leaders to participate in a pilot learning community, focused on fundraising strategy and leadership development.
Please review the Information Page for eligibility requirements and important program details: www.cfwesternva.org/npo-connect/npo-connect-fearless-fundraising-studio/
📝 Application period:
Opens: October 1, 2026
Closes: October 22, 2026
Applications will be submitted through Foundant Grant Lifecycle Manager. If you do not already have an account, you will need to create one to access and complete the application. 
 ... 
 What a great morning at yesterday's first NPO CONNECT event of the year!
Thank you to Sarah Milston from The Spark Mill for an engaging session on strategic planning. Her expertise and thoughtful guidance provided attendees with valuable tools and fresh perspectives to help drive their organizations forward.
We loved seeing the collaboration, discussion, and shared learning throughout the event.
Be sure to mark your calendars for our next NPO CONNECT gathering on October 8th. More information will be available soon! 
 ... 
 We are deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Glenn Thornhill Jr., a devoted member of the Foundation. During his service on our Board from 1990-1992, he provided exceptional leadership, generosity, and commitment to our mission.
We are grateful for Glenn's many contributions and the lasting impact he made on our organization and community. Our thoughts and heartfelt condolences are with his family, friends, and all who were touched by his remarkable life and legacy.

 ... 
Glenn Thornhill Obituary (1941 - 2026) - Salem, VA - Roanoke Times
View Glenn Thornhill Jr.'s obituary, send flowers and sign the guestbook.

[Site footer]
Facebook Twitter Site Map © 2026 Community Foundation PO Box 1159 Roanoke, VA 24006 540.985.0204

[Contact links in page HTML]
email: carly@cfwesternva.org
email:
</document>
<document url="https://www.cfwesternva.org/who-we-are/" type="html" page="about">
Who We Are – Community Foundation

Donate

Fund Advisor Portal

Nonprofit Directory

Who We Are

Our Team

Board of Governors

Regional Advisory Board

Governors and Advisory Board Emeriti

Financials & Accountability

Ways to Give

Job Opportunities

Our Communities

Greater Roanoke Valley

Martinsville City, Henry and Patrick Counties

Women In Philanthropy

Community Partnerships

Southwest Virginia

For Nonprofits

Grant Opportunities

How to Apply

Grantseekers FAQs

Promotional Guidelines

NPO Connect

Access Online Grants Account

Sign Up for Our Email List

For Donors

Fund Advisor Portal

Open a Fund Today

Leave a Legacy

Legacy Society

Tell Your Donor Story

Community Foundation vs. A Private Foundation

Become a Friend of the Foundation

Corporate and Private Foundation Services

Private Foundation Services

For Students

Scholarship Listings

Scholarship Application Instructions

Scholarship Frequently Asked Questions

Access Online Scholarship Account

For Professional Advisors

Sample Bequest Language

Forms & Resources for Professional Advisors

Meet Our Team!

Who We Are

Community foundations began nationally in 1914 and are publicly-supported, 501(c)(3) philanthropic organizations that hold, administer, invest and make grants from both endowed and non-endowed funds established by individuals, families and others. They were designed to be simple, flexible, convenient, tax-wise, cost-effective and perpetual charitable vehicles. 

Our Community Foundation was established in Roanoke in 1988. With our growth, we expanded into the Martinsville/Henry County area in 2005. Today, we administer many hundreds of named endowment funds ranging in size from a minimum of $10,000 to millions of dollars. To date, donors have also committed very significant resources to the Foundation through future estate gifts.

Our Mission

Enabling people who love their community to easily give back.

Summary of Our Daily Work

On your behalf, we work diligently to carry out YOUR charitable intent through endowment funds; we provide long-term professional oversight for funds YOU entrust to us; we make creative grants for current and future community needs and opportunities; we offer comprehensive services to encourage and advance effective philanthropy; we provide opportunities to strengthen local non-profits; and, we promote and participate in collaborative efforts to shape a healthy, caring community.

What is a Community Foundation?

Community foundations are public charities that guide philanthropy and improve the quality of life in a specific geographic area. They are governed by volunteer boards of leading citizens and run by professionals who are experts in community need. Typically, community foundations serve and champion their communities by:

Partnering with individuals, families and organizations to make giving easy and effective.

Strengthening nonprofit organizations through grants, training and other supports.

Providing leadership and insight to important community issues.

Promoting a local or regional culture of philanthropy and service.

There are more than 800 community foundations in the United States, including 30 in Virginia. Community Foundation Serving Western Virginia serves the cities of Martinsville, Roanoke, and Salem and the counties of Botetourt, Craig, Franklin, Henry, Patrick, and Roanoke.

Our Values

Integrity

To always strive for honesty, truthfulness, and accuracy in all of our actions.

Trustworthiness

To always seek to inspire reliability when responding to your needs or questions.

Stewardship

To always embody responsible planning and management of resources.

Confidentiality

To earn the trust of our donors and always honor and respect their desire for privacy in their philanthropic work.

Efficiency

To always display high-level competency in our daily performance.

Effectiveness

To fervently understand how to do the right thing to achieve the best results.

Facebook

Twitter

Site Map

 © 2026 Community Foundation

PO Box 1159

Roanoke, VA 24006

540.985.0204

Back to top

 ×

[Contact links in page HTML]
email: carly@cfwesternva.org
</document>
<document url="https://www.cfwesternva.org/who-we-are/financials-accountability/" type="html" page="financials">
Community Foundation Serving Western Virginia is committed to transparency and accountability. We take seriously our responsibility to operate with the highest standards of integrity and stewardship to ensure donor funds are effectively reinvested in improving the economic and social well-being of our community. In this section, you will find our financial statements and other documents that help you learn more about our operations.
Financial Documents
Audited Financial Statement 2025
Audited Financial Statement 2024
Audited Financial Statement 2023
Audited Financial Statement 2022
Accountability & Policies
Annual Reports
Annual Administrative Assessments
To support the Foundation’s extensive and comprehensive programs that benefit the many communities we serve on a daily basis, we annually apply a board-approved assessment on an endowed Fund’s average market value, using a three-year rolling average, as follows:
| Donor Advised Funds | 1% | 
| Unrestricted Funds | 1% | 
| Agency Funds | 1% | 
| Designated Funds | 1.25% | 
| Field-of-Interest Funds | 1.5% | 
| Scholarship Funds | 1.75% | 
Currently, the above support covers 88% of our operational expense. Our Friends of the Foundation program and other direct administrative gifts to the Community Foundation help close the gap and are always deeply appreciated.
Notes:
- For cases in which a donor requests significant extra activities for a Fund, additional charges may be assessed based on the concurrence of both the Community Foundation and the donor
- The above schedule applies to Funds up to $5 million in assets. For larger Funds, please contact Carly Oliver, President & CEO to discuss a declining schedule.
- For non-endowed (pass-through) Funds, please refer to the Non-Permanent Fund Policy.
Charitable Relationship Policy
Donor Initiated Fundraising Policy
Corporate Information & Forms
The Community Foundation’s Federal Tax ID: 54-1959458
Request a W-9 Form
Gift Transmission Instructions
Request a copy of our sales tax-exempt certificate

[Contact links in page HTML]
email: carly@cfwesternva.org
email: beth@cfwesternva.org
</document>
<document url="https://www.cfwesternva.org/who-we-are/job-opportunities/" type="html" page="careers">
Do you want to join an amazing team of passionate people, committed to making life better for all citizens across our region?
At the Community Foundation, our team is passionate about serving the diverse communities that make up our region. We work collaboratively to strengthen these cities and counties—every day and for generations to come.
Integrity, trust, efficiency, confidentiality, and effectiveness are the core values that guide us. As trusted stewards of the charitable resources placed in our care, we are committed to honoring the vision of our fund donors and turning their hopes into lasting impact.
We’re known for our ability to get things done—and done well. While our work is serious, meaningful, and transformative, we also believe in creating a positive, enjoyable workplace.
If this sounds like the kind of environment where you’d thrive, explore our current job openings below:
There are currently no available positions.

[Contact links in page HTML]
email: carly@cfwesternva.org
</document>
<document url="https://www.cfwesternva.org/donate/" type="html" page="donate">
<span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start"></span><span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start"></span>

[Contact links in page HTML]
email: carly@cfwesternva.org
</document>
<document url="https://www.cfwesternva.org/team/" type="html" page="team">
Team Members – Community Foundation

Donate

Fund Advisor Portal

Nonprofit Directory

Our Team

Email

Bio

Carly C. Oliver

President/CEO

Email

Bio

April Haynes

Chief Operating Officer

Email

Bio

Michelle Eberly

Director, Grants & Donor Engagement

Email

Bio

Beth Kelley

Chief Financial Officer

Email

Bio

Alyssa W. Rorrer

Program Officer

Email

Bio

Chrissy Hannabass

Program Associate

Email

Bio

Samantha Hayes

Grants Associate

Founding President and CEO

Bio

Alan E. Ronk

Retired

Facebook

Twitter

Site Map

 © 2026 Community Foundation

PO Box 1159

Roanoke, VA 24006

540.985.0204

Back to top

 ×

[Contact links in page HTML]
email: carly@cfwesternva.org
email: april@cfwesternva.org
email: michelle@cfwesternva.org
email: beth@cfwesternva.org
email: alyssa@cfwesternva.org
email: chrissy@cfwesternva.org
email: samantha@cfwesternva.org
</document>
<document url="https://www.cfwesternva.org/private-foundation-services/" type="html" page="programs">
We specialize in working with individuals and families to achieve their charitable goals. The Community Foundation works closely with the trustees and advisors of private foundations to customize services that meet their needs. Private Foundations may choose one or more services from the following list to assist them in their charitable administrative responsibilities.
If your private foundation has been affected by any of these factors, the Community Foundation can assist.
- Preference to focus on charitable giving rather than investments and administration
- Rising operational and investment management costs
- Keeping up with new and changing government regulations
- Difficulty in meeting the annual 5% payout requirement
Donor Advised Fund Option
Create tax advantages and open a whole new set of charitable options by establishing a Donor Advised Fund with us. Use a Donor Advised Fund to complement an existing private foundation and gain access to all of our donor services. Plus leverage a number of other benefits, including:
Excise Tax Planning. Contribute additional qualifying distributions to a Donor Advised Fund, and reduce excise taxes on realized gains and earned investment income.
5% Payout Solution. Gain flexibility in your grant-making plans by making your 5% IRS payout requirement to a Donor Advised Fund.
Keep Grant-Making Private. Information about private foundations is readily available for public inspection. Use a Donor Advised Fund to anonymously achieve a charitable goal.
Conversion Option
Give your family’s philanthropy the gift of time by converting your private foundation to a Donor Advised Fund. We will take care of the time-consuming administration and legal responsibilities while you enjoy all the flexibility of a private foundation, access to a suite of donor services and the added benefits of:
Reduced Costs. Tap into expert resources that streamline investing, grant-making, accounting, and tax filings over hundreds of family philanthropies for economies of scale.
Greater Tax Benefits. Receive greater tax incentives on future gifts, such as fair market value deduction of closely held stock contributions and higher AGI deductibility thresholds for cash and publicly traded security gifts.
More Giving Time. Enjoy the time you save by focusing on your philanthropy and making a difference in the organizations, issues, and communities that are personally most important to you and your family.
To learn more about transferring a private foundation click here.
Consulting & Management Options
Focus more on your charitable vision, and less on administrative tasks and regulations with a suite of services designed to give valuable time back to the creators, families, and directors of private foundations. Through our customized services, our professional staff offers you strategic grantmaking and philanthropic planning services, purpose and structure consultations, due diligence, and administration services crucial to day-to-day foundation work. A Memorandum of Understanding will be created between each client and the Community Foundation outlining specific services to be provided and the associated fees.
For more information contact:
Carly Oliver 
Chief Executive Officer
Roanoke Corporate Office
540.985.0204
April Haynes
Chief Operating Officer
Martinsville Regional Office
276.656.6223

[Contact links in page HTML]
email: carly@cfwesternva.org
phone: 540.985.0204
phone: 276.656.6223
</document>
<document url="https://www.cfwesternva.org/feed/" type="xml" page="news_feed">
XML root: rss
title: Community Foundation
link: https://www.cfwesternva.org
lastBuildDate: Tue, 22 Sep 2026 18:51:32 +0000
language: en-US
updatePeriod: hourly
updateFrequency: 1
generator: https://wordpress.org/?v=6.9.9
url: https://www.cfwesternva.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/cropped-android-chrome-512x512-32x32.png
title: Community Foundation
link: https://www.cfwesternva.org
width: 32
height: 32
</document>
<document url="https://www.cfwesternva.org/community-partnerships/" type="html" page="partners">
Community Partnerships – Community Foundation

Donate

Fund Advisor Portal

Nonprofit Directory

Who We Are

Our Team

Board of Governors

Regional Advisory Board

Governors and Advisory Board Emeriti

Financials & Accountability

Ways to Give

Job Opportunities

Our Communities

Greater Roanoke Valley

Martinsville City, Henry and Patrick Counties

Women In Philanthropy

Community Partnerships

Southwest Virginia

For Nonprofits

Grant Opportunities

How to Apply

Grantseekers FAQs

Promotional Guidelines

NPO Connect

Access Online Grants Account

Sign Up for Our Email List

For Donors

Fund Advisor Portal

Open a Fund Today

Leave a Legacy

Legacy Society

Tell Your Donor Story

Community Foundation vs. A Private Foundation

Become a Friend of the Foundation

Corporate and Private Foundation Services

Private Foundation Services

For Students

Scholarship Listings

Scholarship Application Instructions

Scholarship Frequently Asked Questions

Access Online Scholarship Account

For Professional Advisors

Sample Bequest Language

Forms & Resources for Professional Advisors

Community Partnerships

Community Foundation Serving Western Virginia’s Martinsville Regional Office is committed to strengthening the capacity of local non-profits and building strong relationships. Part of our mission is to promote and participate in collaborative efforts to shape a healthy, caring community. The Community Foundation actively seeks opportunities to build community partnerships. 

Community Matters: Nonprofit Tools for Success 

Your Community Foundation also partners with the Nonprofit Leaders Network in its monthly “Community Matters: Nonprofit Tools for Success”. Agencies have the opportunity to receive monthly professional trainings and programs on a topic of practical relevance to the day-to-day administration of nonprofits. Be sure to check out our events page for the latest information on these trainings. 

Facebook

Twitter

Site Map

 © 2026 Community Foundation

PO Box 1159

Roanoke, VA 24006

540.985.0204

Back to top

 ×

[Contact links in page HTML]
email: carly@cfwesternva.org
</document>
<document url="https://www.cfwesternva.org/advisory-board/" type="html" page="team">
Advisory Board Members – Community Foundation

Donate

Fund Advisor Portal

Nonprofit Directory

Advisory Board

Lynanne L. Newman

Chair

Deepak D. Banerjee, M.D.

Marsha E. Frith

Japhet Divad LeGrant

O. Randolph Rollins

Facebook

Twitter

Site Map

 © 2026 Community Foundation

PO Box 1159

Roanoke, VA 24006

540.985.0204

Back to top

 ×

[Contact links in page HTML]
email: carly@cfwesternva.org
</document>
<document url="https://www.cfwesternva.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/12/CFSWV_AnnualReport_2025_FNL.pdf" type="pdf" page="financials_pdf">
[page 1]
ANNUAL REPORT 2025

 A
 Y
E
A R
 O
F 
G
R O
W
T H
, 
T R
A N
S I
T I
O
N 
A
N
D 
I M
P
A
C
T
FORWARD
LIGHTING

 A
 Y
E
A R
 O
F 
G
R O
W
T H
, 
T R
A N
S I
T I
O
N 
A
N
D 
I M
P
A
C
T
FORWARD
LIGHTING
the way
the way

[page 2]
ROANOKE 
CORPORATE OFFICE
611 S. Jefferson Street | Suite 8
Roanoke, VA 24011
Phone: 540.985.0204
MARTINSVILLE 
REGIONAL OFFICE
Mailing Address:
P.O. Box 1124 | Martinsville, VA 24114
Location:
300 Franklin Street | Suite 230
Martinsville, VA 24112
Phone: 276.656.6223
REPORT OF ACTIVITIES FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2025
GEOGRAPHIC SERVICE AREA 
We are honored to work with individuals and families 
on their charitable estate plans throughout much of 
western and southwestern Virginia.
Community Foundation Serving Western Virginia 
is registered with The Virginia Office of Consumer 
Affairs, a member of Council on Foundations, and 
is a member of both Roanoke Regional Chamber of 
Commerce and Martinsville-Henry County 
Chamber of Commerce.
Carly C. Oliver
President & CEO
April M. Haynes
Chief Operating Officer
Martinsville Regional Office
Beth Kelley
Chief Financial Officer
Michelle M. Eberly
Director, Grants & 
Donor Engagement
Alyssa W. Rorrer
Program Officer
Martinsville Regional Office
cfwesternva.org
YOUR COMMUNITY FOUNDATION TEAM

[page 7]
7
The Martinsville-Henry County 
Family YMCA provides programs 
that promote youth development, 
healthy living, and social 
responsibility across Martinsville 
and Henry County. Among its most 
critical services are afterschool 
care and summer day camp for 
children ages 4–12 in the Henry 
County and Martinsville City 
School Districts.
These programs focus on working 
families who do not qualify for 
social services and cannot afford 
typical fees, ensuring that children 
are safe and supported during the 
afterschool hours of 3:00–6:00 
p.m. — a time when unsupervised 
children are at higher risk for 
accidents, behavioral challenges, 
and academic setbacks. High-
quality programs like the YMCA’s 
MARTINSVILLE-HENRY CO. FAMILY YMCA
is the largest 
childcare provider 
in the nation
Children come from
16
area schools
Afterschool and 
summer camp serves 
children ages 
4–12
Roughly
1-in-5
children in the U.S. 
spend time unsupervised 
after school
offer academic support, social skill 
development, physical activity, 
and exposure to caring adults and 
positive role models, while helping 
parents maintain employment and 
work toward financial stability.
In 2024-2025, the YMCA served 
approximately 202 elementary 
students through five afterschool 
sites and 87 children in its 11-week 
summer day camp. With rising 
childcare costs, many families 
struggle to pay standard rates. To 
ensure no child is turned away, the 
YMCA offers reduced “scholarship” 
rates through its Afterschool and 
Summer Day Camp Scholarship 
Fund.
Thanks to a $15,000 grant from 
the Hermes Family Fund and the 
Dr. John D. French Legacy Fund, 
the YMCA can continue providing 
these scholarships, giving children 
access to safe, enriching programs 
and giving parents the support 
they need to thrive.
Through this investment, the YMCA 
strengthens children, families, 
and the community, ensuring that 
every child has the opportunity to 
grow, learn, and succeed.
Child care 
is expensive 
but also vital 
for working 
families. 
The grant we 
received from 
the Community 
Foundation 
allowed us 
to lighten 
the financial 
burden for 
those families. 
The children 
were in a safe 
and nurturing 
environment, 
and the parents 
can feel 
comfortable 
going to work.
– Brad Kinkema 
 CEO/Executive Director

[page 9]
9
ROANOKE VALLEY SPCA
100+ Years
in operation
Assisted 
40+ families
with emergency 
veterinary costs 
RVSPCA received
1,585 
calls for help 
this year
RVSPCA helped
1,000+
animals find new homes
The Community 
Foundation has 
been a lifeline 
to our 
organization, 
allowing us 
to achieve 
our mission 
of providing 
high quality 
healthcare 
and medicine 
to uninsured 
residents of 
Franklin County.
Emily Waller, DMSC, PA
President, Board of Directors
Free Clinic of Franklin County
The Roanoke Valley SPCA 
(RVSPCA) serves as a vital 
community resource providing 
pet adoption, retention, and 
education services throughout 
Virginia’s Blue Ridge. As a full-
service animal welfare agency, the 
RVSPCA focuses on prevention, 
intervention, and adoption to 
strengthen the bond between 
people and their pets.
Prevention services include a 
robust spay/neuter program, 
microchipping, and extensive 
humane education and 
community engagement initiatives. 
Intervention programs provide 
critical support such as a pet food 
pantry, veterinary care assistance, 
temporary housing for pets in 
times of crisis, behavioral support, 
and pet deposit assistance. These 
programs are designed to address 
barriers that can prevent families 
from keeping their pets, ensuring 
animals remain safe, healthy, 
and in loving homes. Adoption 
services ensure that every animal 
receives comprehensive veterinary 
care, including vaccinations, 
microchipping, and spay/neuter 
surgery, before finding a 
permanent home.
The C.A.Re Fund (Companion 
Animal Relief Fund) of the 
RVSPCA was established to 
help economically challenged 
pet owners struggling with 
extraordinary veterinary expenses, 
ensuring pets remain healthy 
and at home. The RVSPCA is 
committed to keeping pets and 
people together, and the C.A.Re 
Fund helps to do just that. This 
support program is available to 
residents of Roanoke City, Vinton, 
and Salem, as well as Botetourt, 
Bedford, Craig, Floyd, Franklin, 
Montgomery, and Roanoke 
Counties, and to any animals 
adopted from the SPCA, regardless 
of geographic location.
Through these programs, the 
RVSPCA not only provides direct 
care for pets but also educates 
and empowers the community to 
be responsible, compassionate 
guardians. Thanks to a $6,100 
grant from the Phalia M. and Guy 
M. Kinder Fund, the C.A.Re Fund 
ensures that pets stay healthy, 
loved, and close to the people who 
cherish them.
The C.A.Re or 
Companion 
Animal Relief Fund 
of the Roanoke 
Valley SPCA was 
set up to help 
economically 
challenged pet 
owners struggling 
with extraordinary 
veterinary 
expenses to keep 
their pets healthy 
and at home with 
them. In FY25, 
we received 
194 requests 
for C.A.Re 
Fund assistance 
and were able 
to award 108 
of those with 
funding thanks 
to generous 
donors like the 
Community 
Foundation.
– Julie Rickmond, 
 Marketing and 
 Communications Director

[page 11]
11
The Southside Survivor Response Center (SSRC) 
provides crisis intervention, advocacy, safety services, 
and education to empower individuals affected by 
domestic violence, sexual assault, and trauma-induced 
crises. Serving Martinsville City, Henry, and Patrick 
Counties, SSRC is the only emergency shelter in the 
region for women and children fleeing domestic 
violence and sexual assault.
SSRC offers a comprehensive array of services, 
including 24-hour crisis intervention and hotline 
support, emergency shelter, safety planning, hospital 
and court accompaniment, counseling, life skills, 
case management, and financial assistance. Through 
strong partnerships and culturally competent care, 
SSRC addresses both immediate needs and long-term 
recovery, ensuring women and children can rebuild 
their lives safely and confidently. Special attention is 
given to Latin-X communities, supporting families who 
face language and cultural barriers.
Founded in 1981, SSRC combines evidence-based, 
equity-driven practices with a trauma-informed 
approach. Seventeen dedicated staff members, 
alongside culturally diverse volunteers and community 
partners, provide wraparound services that promote 
resiliency, self-sufficiency, and healing. Programs focus 
not only on crisis response but also on education, 
advocacy, and challenging cultural norms that 
perpetuate violence.
SSRC’s shelter creates a safe, supportive environment 
where survivors are treated with respect and dignity. 
Financial assistance and life skills programs help women 
and children regain stability, while counseling and case 
management address emotional and practical needs.
Thanks to a $12,000 grant from the Earl D. and Carrie 
Leigh Doran Fund, SSRC can continue to provide 
these essential services, helping survivors break free 
from cycles of abuse, restore safety, and move toward 
empowered, independent lives.
Full Spanish speaking 
services were added in
2016
Provide 24/7
Crisis Helpline
Only regional shelter 
for women and children 
fleeing abuse
The Community 
Foundation’s 
generous 
support of 
MARC’s Founders 
Scholarship 
Fund provided 
an opportunity 
for individuals 
without the 
resources to 
access our day 
program to 
assist them with 
development 
of skills sets 
necessary to 
successfully 
integrate into 
their community.
Melody Justice 
Executive Director
SOUTHSIDE SURVIVOR RESPONSE CENTER
This 
grant has 
strengthened 
the capacity 
of our 
Emergency 
Shelter 
Services, 
helping us 
to meet 
critical needs 
and offer 
a lifeline 
to those 
seeking 
refuge and a 
path forward. 
We thank 
you! 
– Tamika Whitfield, 
 Executive Director
Founded in 
1981
24/7

[page 16]
*New Fund
16
families, and programs that provide educational 
and career services from low to moderate 
income families. 
Charles and Pat Houghton Fund 
Established by Dr. Charles W. and Pat H. Houghton, 
this fund supports organizations that improve the 
lives of needy elderly citizens of the community.
The Hope Fund 
Established by anonymous donors, this fund’s 
primary purpose is to support organizations 
that serve individuals and families in need of 
food, shelter or medical assistance, as well as 
battered women and children; also to support 
organizations that serve our Wounded Warriors 
that have been injured as a direct result of a 
military deployment, along with other non-profit 
organizations of interest to the donors.
Hospice Fund 
Provides assistance and services to any needy 
resident of the Martinsville community with end-
of-life medical needs and expenses.
Rita Knox Hutts Memorial Fund 
Established through the estate of Rita Knox 
Hutts, this fund supports organizations that 
teach people how to be self-reliant and self-
sufficient, help the needy obtain prescription 
medications, address the basic human needs 
of children, and provide financial assistance to 
Catholic seminarians.
Melva P. Jones Fund for Music and Art 
Established through the estate of Melva P. Jones, 
this fund supports music and arts programs, 
preferenced for the Town of Vinton.
Phalia M. and Guy M. Kinder Fund 
Established through the estate of Phalia Miles 
Kinder and Guy Millard Kinder, this fund 
supports agencies and organizations which are 
effective and efficient in preventing cruelty to 
animals; research and medical advancement for 
the cure of the diseases in animals; professional 
education of animal caretakers; and programs 
which promote the positive relationship 
between humans and animals.
Emil and Emma Lang Fund for the 
Visually Impaired 
Established by the late Emil and Emma Lang, this 
fund provides support to programs and agencies 
that address the needs of the visually impaired in 
Roanoke City, City of Salem, Botetourt County, 
Craig County, and Roanoke County.
The Camille M. Lownds Charitable Fund 
Established through the estate of Camille 
Lownds, this fund supports the needs of children 
with cancer or cancer research.
Martinsville Area Endowment Fund 
Provides health services to needy residents of 
the Martinsville community, supports health-
related teaching, educational and research 
programs and generally provides for the medical 
care of the Martinsville community.
Medical Education Fund 
Supports continuing medical education for 
students in the Martinsville community and 
healthcare professionals who practice in the 
Martinsville community.
Mary Lou and Mickey Moore Memorial Fund* 
Established by Michael J. Moore, this fund 
supports vocational trade programs in the 
Roanoke Valley.
Sandra Lee Overstreet Fund 
Established by the late Sandra Lee Overstreet, 
this fund supports organizations providing 
dental, medical or surgical services to children 
or adults in the Roanoke Valley who cannot 
afford them and organizations in the Roanoke 
Valley which provide, rescue, care and adoption 
services for lost, sick or neglected animals. 
Thomas P. and Lewise S. Parsley Fund 
Established by the late Lewise Parsley, this fund 
places a premium on the preservation of dignity, 
hope and personal independence for the elderly 
and needy. The fund addresses three specific 
community concerns: to help the elderly and 
needy afford prescription medications; to fight 
substance abuse; and to help elderly and needy 
obtain home health services when they cannot 
manage alone.
Marion K. Ramsey Fund 
Established by Dr. and Mrs. Douglas E. Pierce, the 
fund supports elderly citizens in the community.
Ravenel Oncology Center Fund 
Established by Dr. Nigel Goodchild, this fund 
provides a broad range of support and care to 
needy patients who have been treated at the 
Ravenel Oncology Center.
Roanoke Valley Academy of Medicine Fund 
Established by the Roanoke Valley Academy of 
Medicine, this fund supports the broad medical 
needs in the community.
Roanoke Valley Children’s Fund 
Established by the B. Wilson Porterfield, Jr. 
Foundation, this fund addresses the broad needs 
of children in the Valley from prenatal care until 
their sixth birthday.
Romero Family Fund 
Established by Betty LaPrade Romero, this 
fund provides medical assistance to the elderly 
and disabled population in Henry and Franklin 
Counties and the City of Martinsville. 
Ann and Bill Scheer Fund 
Established by the late Ann and Bill Scheer, this 
fund provides broad support for the elderly 
citizens of the Roanoke Valley.
Dr. Charles L. Shedd Endowment Fund 
Established by the Shedd School Foundation, 
this fund honors and commemorates the life of 
Charles Livingston Shedd, Ph.D. and supports 
educational needs.
Jacqueline S. (Jackie) and 
Shelborn L. (S.L.) Spangler Fund 
Established by the late Shelborn L. Spangler, 
this fund supports a wide variety of important 
community needs and opportunities in the 
communities of Poages Mill, Bent Mountain, 
Copper Hill and Check, Virginia.
Robert Harrison Smith Memorial Fund 
Established by N. Frank Smith, this fund supports 
organizations that assist handicapped or 
disabled persons. 
Dr. Robert Manton Wilson Memorial Fund 
to Eradicate Leprosy 
Established by the late Samuel B. McGhee, this 
fund supports worldwide efforts to eradicate the 
scourge of leprosy.
Larry Woodrow Vest Fund 
Established through the estate of Larry 
Woodrow Vest, this fund supports a wide 
range of community needs with particular 
consideration being given to charitable 
organizations providing services to Floyd 
County, Virginia residents.
Pamela M. Wright Fund 
Established by the late Joseph B. Wright, this 
fund supports local and national organizations 
devoted to the welfare of animals.
Byron and Nancy Yost Fund 
Established by Byron L. and Nancy T. Yost, 
this fund supports efforts to alleviate 
childhood hunger.

[page 23]
*New Fund
23
Administrative Endowment Fund
Supported by numerous donors, this fund helps 
support the daily administrative needs of the 
Foundation.
Gail H. Albert Charitable Fund 
Established by the late Gail H. Albert, this fund 
supports St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, 
Shriners Children’s Hospital, and Wounded 
Warrior Project.
James R. Alvis Jr. Children’s Hospice Fund
Established by the late Roger Hodnett, Dr. William 
Baker, the late Al Tignor, family and friends, this 
fund supports Good Samaritan Hospice.
Anonymous Fund
Established by an anonymous donor, this fund 
supports Grace Network of MHC.
The Anne Armistead Fund
Established by the late Anne Armistead, this fund 
focuses on selected social service and cultural 
organizations.
Dorothy Back and Nathaniel Back 
Charitable Fund
Established by the late Nathaniel and Dorothy 
Back, this fund is designated to support a 
local agency.
Margaret I. Camplejohn Charitable Gift Annuity
Established by Margaret I. Camplejohn, this fund 
will support The Rescue Mission of Roanoke, Inc.
David “Crockett” Chatham Memorial Fund
Established by the late Mrs. Hugh H. Chatham and 
family members, this fund provides assistance 
and services to needy residents of the Martinsville 
community with end-of-life medical needs and 
expenses.
Earl L. and Ethel Y. Childers Fund
Established through the estate of Earl L. Childers, 
this fund supports nonprofit organizations of 
interest to the donor and his family.
Elizabeth Teague Coglitore Memorial Fund 
Established by Robert Dean Teague and Julia 
Teague Van Nutt, this fund supports Christa 
McAuliffe Elementary School.
DESIGNATED FUNDS
Nancy Drew Charitable Gift Annuity
Established by Nancy Drew, this fund will support 
the Warm Hearth Foundation.
Francis and Helen Ewald Family 
Charitable Fund
Established by the Ewald family, this fund 
supports selected arts and cultural organizations 
and other charitable interests of the family.
Reba K. and Sidney Falkenstein Fund
Established by the late Joan F. Brenner and 
David S. Falkenstein, this fund supports Temple 
Emanuel.
Howard Feiertag Charitable Gift Annuity
Established by Howard Feiertag, this fund 
supports the Warm Hearth Foundation Fund.
Fund for Educating Ministers and Missionaries 
Established by the late Samuel B. McGhee, this 
fund provides higher education scholarship 
assistance to students at Union Theological 
Seminary and Presbyterian School of Christian 
Education to pursue a career as an ordained 
minister or as a missionary.
Fund for Garth Newel Music Center
Established by Edward A. and Susan R. O’Neal, this 
fund benefits Garth Newel Music Center.
Anthony Giesen Endowment Fund
Established through the estate of Anthony Geisen, 
this fund supports Ferrum College and St. John’s 
Episcopal Church in Roanoke, VA. 
Greene Memorial United Methodist 
Church Fund
Established by a church member, this fund 
supports Greene Memorial United Methodist 
Church.
The Zelda and Julius Halpern Fund
Established through the estates of Zelda and 
Julius Halpern, this fund supports six nonprofit 
organizations.
The Samuel Charles and Neva Carol Baker Hill 
Charitable Fund
Established through the estate of Samuel C. Hill, 
this fund benefits Bradley Free Clinic and The 
Salvation Army.
Rita Knox Hutts Memorial Fund
Established through the estate of Rita Knox Hutts, 
this fund supports many of her favorite charities 
and organizations helping those in need.
Gene A. Hylton Administrative 
Endowment Fund
Established through the estate of Gene A. Hylton, 
this fund supports the Foundation’s work in the 
community.
John A. Jamison Fund
Established by the Jamison family and by Blue 
Ridge Community Services, this fund helps 
selected clients of Blue Ridge Behavioral 
Healthcare pursue educational opportunities.
V. Diane Kelly Fund for Forgotten Victims
Established by Elizabeth (Ibby) Greer, this fund 
supports the Super Hero Kids Program of Total 
Action for Progress.
Bill and Irene Kennedy Fund
Established by the late Bill and Irene Kennedy, this 
fund supports nonprofit organizations of interest 
to the donors and their family.
Sandy Mac Campership Fund
Established in honor of W. Alexander McEachern, 
this fund provides camp experiences for youth at 
UUC youth camps.
The Conrad and Clara Avril Maier Fund
Established by the late Mary C. Maier, this fund 
benefits the scholarship program of Hollins 
University and may also benefit The Nature 
Conservancy, Christendom College, 
and a hospice in the Roanoke Valley.
Dr. Norman G. and Doris M. Marriott 
Charitable Gift Annuities
Established by Norman and Doris Marriott, 
these funds will support The Rescue Mission of 
Roanoke, Inc. and Warm Hearth Foundation.
Connie Stephens May Scholarship Fund
Established by Teresa M. Stowasser, this fund 
honors and memorializes her mother’s long 
interest in education by helping worthy students 
who are resuming or beginning their higher 

[page 26]
*New Fund
26
H. Clay Gravely IV Memorial Fund 
Established by family and friends of the late 
H. Clay Gravely IV and advised by an advisory 
committee.
Catherine J. Griffin Charitable Fund 
Established and advised by Catherine Griffin.
Lucian Y. and June B. Grove Fund 
Established by the late Lu and June Grove and 
advised by family members.
Hart of the Entrepreneur Fund 
Established by family and friends of the late 
Bonsall “Bonz” Hart and advised by an advisory 
committee.
Rodney M. Haynes Memorial Fund 
Established by family and friends in memory of 
Rodney M. Haynes.
Hudson-Williams Fund 
Established and advised by an anonymous donor 
to honor the families of Raymond S. and Mary 
Hudson Williams.
A. Anson and Theresa G. Jamison Fund 
Established through the estate of Theresa G. 
Jamison.
Jessee Family Fund* 
Established and advised by John and Shea Jessee.
Peggy Johnson Hope for Children Fund 
Established by Rudolph and Maureen Johnson 
and advised by Rudolph, Maureen and family 
members.
Dan and Nancy Karnes Fund 
Established by Nancy and the late Daniel L. Karnes 
and advised by Nancy.
Jennifer Kirby Memorial Fund 
Established and advised by The Kroger Company, 
this fund perpetuates the charitable interests 
of The Kroger Company and its late employee, 
Jennifer Kirby.
Philip C. Kistler and Mary Kistler Bickford Fund 
Established by the late Mary Kistler Bickford and 
advised her children Ashley Kistler, Gene Kistler, 
Kathy Craft and Elly Cote.
The Stan and Elise Lanford Family Fund 
Established and advised by Stan and Elise Lanford.
William Jacob and Barbara Inez Boyle 
Lemon Fund 
Established by William J. and the late Barbara 
B. Lemon, this fund supports a wide range of 
important community needs with a special 
emphasis on cultural activities, conservation and 
preservation, social services and education as 
advised by Bill Lemon.
Cap’t Til Lester Fund (In memory of G.T. 
“Cap’t Til” and Lottie Shelton Lester) 
Established by the late George W. Lester II and 
advised by family members.
Rachel Alice Lewis Memorial Fund 
Established and advised by Charlotte Lewis 
Parsons.
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel B. Long Fund 
Established and advised by Sam and Sylvia Long.
MadLea Fund 
Established and advised by Blaine and 
Robin Lewis. 
The McClain Family Charitable Fund 
Established and advised by Mark McClain.
The McClung Family Fund 
Established and advised by Cathy Z. Ford and 
James T. McClung, Jr.
Tom and Deborah McDonald Fund 
Established and advised by Tom and Deborah 
McDonald.
Sara L. and Samuel H. McGhee, III Fund 
Established by the late Sara L. and Samuel H. 
McGhee, III and is advised by Samuel H. 
McGhee, IV.
Robert F. McMillan Memorial Fund 
Established and advised by Jackie McMillan. 
Debra C. Meade Family Fund 
Established and advised by Debra C. Meade.
Barton W. and Margaret J. Morris Fund 
Established by the late Margaret and Barton 
Morris and advised by B. Wistar Morris, III and 
Ann J. Morris.
Marshall and Monika Mundy Fund 
Established by Monika F. and the late Marshall 
Mundy and advised by Monika.
Music Education Fund 
Established by Willy Pierre Jacoebee and Richard 
C. Henderson, this fund supports programs that 
bring the joy of music to needy children in the 
community.
My Hometown Fund 
Established and advised by The Ramsey Foundation.
S. Kime Patsel Fund 
Established and advised by S. Kime Patsel. 
Lily Belle Patterson Memorial Fund 
Established and advised by Clayton and 
Amber Patterson.
Nancy and Ballard Pinkard Fund 
Established by Nancy B. and the late Ballard F. 
Pinkard and advised by Nancy.
Doris and Roy R. Pollard, Jr. Fund 
Established by the late Doris and Roy Pollard, 
this fund supports a wide range of important 
community needs with a special emphasis on
[...truncated]
</document>
</documents>

Extract the organisation profile from these documents.